You've done a great job thus far,
implementing the Kalman filter in one dimension.
Now it's time to consider systems with higher dimensions,
after all most the real life processes that we'd like to model are multi-dimensional.
For instance, the x,
y location of a robot.
Let's step through what a multi-dimensional
otherwise known as a multivariate Gaussian looks like.
And then move on to code a 2-D Kalman filter in C++.
A 2-D Gaussian can also be represented as so,
where the contour lines show variations in height.
We will be using two-dimensional Gaussian as examples but the same concepts
and processes that you learn here can be applied to higher dimensional Gaussian as well.
For a one dimensional Gaussian,
the mean was represented by a single value, Mieux,
for two dimensional Gaussian,
the mean is a vector,
with two values one for each of the two dimensions.
An N dimensional Gaussian,
would have a mean vector that are sized N by 1.
Similarly, while a one dimensional Gaussian has a single value for the variance,
a two dimensional Gaussian has a covariance matrix represented by an uppercase Sigma.
The covariance matrix represents the spread of the Gaussian into two dimensions,
an N dimensional Gaussian would have a covariance matrix that is of size N
by N. The diagonal values of the matrix represent the variance.
While the off diagonal elements represent the correlation terms.
An important fact to note is that the covariance matrix is always symmetrical.
In the case of the 2-D Gaussian,
the two off diagonal elements are equivalent.
To make better sense of what a covariance matrix represents,
Let's take a look at a few examples of two-dimensional Gaussians.
Let's fix our mean into an arbitrary point,
and manipulate the values and the covariance matrix.
If the x and y variances are both small,
and equal to one another,
the 2-D Gaussian representation will be circular.
In such a case, you are equally certain about
the location of an object in each dimension.
However, it's possible that you are quite certain
about the location of an object in the x axis,
but not so much on the y axis.
In such a case, the contra lines of the Gaussian will start to take on an oval shape.
Notice that the correlation terms are zero,
if the correlation terms are non-zero,
the two axis are correlated,
and you'll have a skewed oval as you see here.
Depending on whether the terms multiply out to a positive value,
or a negative value your oval will skew to the right, or left respectively.
Then once you get information about one axis,
it will reveal information about the other due to the correlation.
A multivariate Gaussian can be modeled with
the following equation D represents the number of dimensions present,
and you'll notice that if you plug in D equals 1 into the formula,
it simplifies to the one-dimensional Gaussian formula
that you were presented with earlier.